# Comments

## ChatGPT API Is Slow

The ChatGPT API is _really_ slow. Unreasonably slow. I'm talking more than a few
seconds for a response.

It does convince me to try out the LLM on GCP as I'd assume this has a much lower
latency.

## ChatGPT Is Simultaneously Expensive and Cheap

I ran this prototype maybe 5 times, and it cost me $0.01. Is that a tiny amount
for what is basically the first GAI? Yeah, it's chump change. However, when 
considered relative to all other computing, it is _crazy_ expensive.

A VM costs $0.01 - $0.10 per hour. This is an entire computer. The full OS, all
of the resources, for a whole hour. This LLM probably ran for 15 seconds 5 times.
I can see how you could very quickly rack up huge costs with ChatGPT.

## Focus on Time-Consuming Tasks

I found the advice it gave on "improvements" to the article were pretty bad.
Perhaps this is because of the prompt I used. But, more likely, because the more
abstract of a task the harder it is for it to be successful.

Think of a employee. The more specific of a task, the more successful they 
typically will be. The more abstract of a task, you will either need to (a.)
provide feedback on its answers until you're happy or (b.) you need to fine-tune
the staff until they understand what your prompts mean.

Hence, I am of the opinion that you should use ChatGPT for simple, yet 
time-consuming, tasks. I found editing for spelling and grammar very effective.
I found rewording the content effective too. I'd imagine it's even more effective
with multi-shot prompts, where you can give it feedback ("it sounds too formal",
"I don't like the short paragraphs. Can you have longer paragraphs?").

## Is It Worth It?

In a similar vein to the cost argument, ChatGPT is **free** online. Will it be
free forever? Probably not. But while it is, the extra 2 minutes to copy the 
prompt and the article into ChatGPT is probably worth it for a free experience.
Especially given that you'd want to review the outputs and prompt them afterwards
anyway.

# Takeaways

Automate editing the correcting the article. Especially a simple, 
unlikely-to-be-rejected-change like correcting spelling and grammar. If you want
a human in the loop, consider just manually copying your prompt and article in
ChatGPT.
