Okay, okay, that title sounds a bit clickbaity. But hear me out. 

Tell me what you feel when you think of the weekend. Sounds nice, doesn’t it? A 
couple days where yo frolic on the beach, enjoy long lunches, catch up with 
friends and family,, work on that hobby project, or just laze around at home. Its 
two days of bliss, of relaxation, until you reenter into the truggery of modern work. 

Your week is the opposite of the weekend. Hurried mornings to get to to work, 
hustling to get an ever-growing list of responsibilities and work completed in 
an every-dwindling amount of time. Your boss (or your customers) demand more 
from you each day. You work harder for the same amount of pay, while the cost of 
everything continues to rise. You return home, exhausted, before you start you 
domestic shift of making dinner, cleaning your home, performing administrative 
work like paying bills and organising appointments, before finally collapsing in 
bed and repeating the cycleee.

When 70% of your week is work to the point of exhaustion, 2 days of relaxation 
sure sound nice don’t they?

It sounds strange, but we haven’t always had a weekend. The weekend is a 
relatively modern invention. Although things like the Sabbith existed, the idea 
of a formalised two-day weekend was first conceptualised during the industrial 
revolution, where factory workers demanded a greater break from the harsh 
working conditions of the factories.

Prior to this, there was no concept of the weekend; every day you entered back 
into the forest to look for your next meal, or you went back to your farm to 
tend to your crops to prepare for harvest. Life was simpler, albeit harder and 
less predictable. Most people were what modern society would call 
“entrepreneurs” or “small business owners”. Being employed by another person 
wasn’t as commonplace as it is today.

Our original capitalistic masters convinced us to trade off our freedom for 
security. They would guarantee that we’d be feed, sheltered, and clothed as long 
as we gave them our life. That was an attractive trade for most. 

Originally this trade was worth it, as we were paid so much more than we could 
make in our own enterprises. However this was just the start; the capitalists 
knew that they could slowly squeeze more out of us over time, much like the frog 
boiled alive. They made us work harder, longer, and get paid less. It was 
capitalistic serfdom.

Workers eventually had enough and demanded more time off. The standard one-day 
of rest was no longer sufficient, given how hard they were working, and instead 
they required two days. And hence the modern weekend was born as a way to 
placate the masses while keeping them enslaved.

Think of it this way: if you only worked 4 hours each day, instead of 8+ hours, 
do you think you’d still need two days per week? I’d argue no.

This is why I think the weekend is an addiction. Each week we work ourselves to 
the bone for our “next fix” of two days off. Just long enough to keep us from 
revolting. Each week we chase that high of freedom again and repeat the cycle.

So how do we escape the matrix per se? Some extremists encourage you to “revolt” 
and “eat the rich”. Yes, conceptually, that sounds nice. But how do you plan to 
do that? You can’t farm, you can’t fight, and you probably can’t organise enough 
people to revolt. You might not even want to: capitalism has provided us with a 
lot of modern luxuries that I know I couldn’t live without and reverting to a 
simpler system would probably only cause my life to get worse, not better.

My solution is to **become a capitalist yourself**. You live in a capitalist 
system, so play the capitalist’s game. So start a business. Sell your services. 
Don’t give into modern slavery. Market yourself and charge what you’re worth.

This is how certain sects of society have managed to avoid being absorbed by the 
capitalistic system: they form an intra-capitalistic society where they trade 
amongst themselves, resulting in a greater economic benefit of the group, as the 
excess value generated from their trade stays within their community. Think how 
jewish people work with other jewish people, or alumni with other alumni. 

You’re a chippy? Don’t work for a big carpenter. Go solo, find other small 
business who want to work with you. Start a revolution by rejecting 
*conglomerates* and other big enterprises. Play the game, be ethical, and try to 
return all of your excess profits back into your community as best as you know how.

You’re a software engineer? I get it you might need to cut your teeth at a 
Google or similar, but as soon as you can exit the system and go out on your 
own. Work with small businesses who you think would benefit from your skills. 
Eventually, if you can, contribute back to society by providing an environment 
where new engineers can enter into the industry without having to sell their 
soul to companies like Google.

How does this solve the problem? Well, as a capitalist, you retain this freedom 
you crave. You can set your own hours, charge whatever you like, and work 
however you like. Is it as secure as traditional employment? Hell no. But that’s 
the price you pay for your freedom.

If we revolt like good capitalists, and reject companies and organisations who 
wish to exploit us, all they can do is bend to our will and provide better 
working conditions for everyone involved. Companies aren’t intrinsically evil: 
they are just amoral and motivated by profit only. So make it that profits mean 
a good outcome for society.